feat: CDK Comprehensive Validation RFC (#899)
aws/aws-cdk-rfcs: text/0897-cdk-comprehensive-validation.md

# CDK Comprehensive Validation RFC

* **Original Author(s):**: @kaizencc
* **Tracking Issue**: #897
* **API Bar Raiser**: @rix0rr

We will shift left failures that occur during AWS CloudFormation deployment.
We will validate as much as possible offline during cdk synth
and supplement with validation that occurs at the beginning of cdk deploy.

Today, validation happens when your CDK app is built at synth time

> and when your CFN ChangeSet is created at deploy time (by default).

Reviewer: nit: Not just for change sets. and what does by default mean?

that previously surface during AWS CloudFormation Deployment;
this will supplement the "online" validation that CFN Early Validation provides.

CDK Comprehensive Validation will also be offered as a standalone command,
cdk validate, where you can perform both offline and online validation.

## Working Backwards

### Blog Post

#### Catch CloudFormation Failures Before They Happen with CDK Comprehensive Validation

April 1, 2026 · AWS CDK Team

Today, we are announcing CDK Comprehensive Validation,
a new feature that shifts CloudFormation deployment failures left
by catching misconfigurations during `cdk synth` —
before your template ever reaches AWS CloudFormation.
Whether you are deploying infrastructure yourself
or relying on an AI agent to build and deploy on your behalf,
slow feedback from deployment failures disrupts your development lifecycle.
CDK Comprehensive Validation gives you confidence that your deployment will succeed,
up to 90% faster than waiting for a full `cdk deploy` to fail.

A new `cdk validate` command also unifies all validation output —
offline rule checks, construct library errors, and CloudFormation changeset validation —

> into a single invocation.

Reviewer: yes command would be better. (I don't see the change here)

> into a single invocation.

Author: :(

> into a single invocation.

Author: now i've really removed this line altogether

    style synth fill:#2c3e50,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style deploy fill:#2c3e50,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style V1 fill:#f0c040,stroke:#333,color:#000
    style V2 fill:#2ecc71,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style V4 fill:#f0c040,stroke:#333,color:#000
    style V5 fill:#d44,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A1 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A2 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A3 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A4 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
```

* **CDK Construct Library Validation (existing)** — Handwritten checks that run when your CDK constructs
  are built during synthesis. These catch issues like negative duration values or missing required properties.
* **Offline Validation (NEW)** — Immediately after synthesis, the new built-in validation engine evaluates
  your CloudFormation template against hundreds of rules. Unlike external tools, this engine resolves
  CloudFormation intrinsic functions natively, so it can catch issues that static analysis tools miss.
* **CFN Early Validation (existing)** — During `cdk deploy`, CloudFormation validates your changeset
  before execution, catching issues like resources that already exist.

> ##### Offline Validation

Reviewer: I really dislike that name lol. Is this really  different than policy as code?
Maybe Local Validation? Super Early Validation?

Author: leaving it as "offline" and "online" until we have a better naming system. i don't share your distaste but am happy to workshop. i feel strongly that post-synthesis validation and pre-deploy validation should have monikers that relate to each other, the way "offline" and "online" do. 

and I think CFN Early Validation is a misnomer in the world of CDK since it does not happen "early" at all. so i would like to steer away from "Early" and rename our pre-deploy validation something different, even if it just a wrapper around CFN Early Validation.

Reviewer: to be clear: my personal distaste aside, you should bring about a peer reviewed naming decision. not necessarily required for the PR, but before release.

> i feel strongly that post-synthesis validation and pre-deploy validation should have monikers that relate to each other, the way "offline" and "online" do.

I agree, but post-synth and pre-deploy don't imply offline or online. I'd distinguish between the _rule source_ (CFN spec, cdk nag, CDK code, custom), the _emitter_ of the validation (CFN vs CDK) and the time it is run (local vs. cloud).

I can see how a `cdk validate --offline` flag _could_ be useful. But to @go-to-k 's point: "offline" implies full network abstinence, which is just not something that CDK apps do at all at the moment (think lookups!).

---

For lack of any other naming suggestions, I'm currently leaning towards framing this as local validation. The opposite moniker would be "cloud based".

#### Custom Rule Mechanism:

Custom rules are written in Rego and placed in a configurable directory
that can be piped into the Offline Validation Engine.
Custom rules can also be loaded in code via `Validations.of().addRules()`.
Rules can be distributed across teams and organizations
through any package manager (npm, PyPI, Maven, etc.)
since Rego files are plain text with no compilation required.

### Is this a breaking change?

No

### What alternative solutions did you consider?

1. Rely solely on CFN Early Validation: rejected because it requires a CFN changeset
   and that happens too late in the deployment process.
2. Extend CDK construct library validation: rejected because it is a treadmill,
   and L1 level users do not get access to L2 level validations.
3. Use the existing CDK Policy Validation plugin system: rejected because it requires
   external tool installation (e.g. CloudFormation Guard CLI, OPA binary),
   does not resolve CloudFormation intrinsic functions,
   does not ship with a default rule set,
   and adds friction for teams that just want validation to work out of the box.
   The existing plugin system will continue to work alongside the new built-in engine

>    for teams that need integration with specific external tools.

Reviewer 2: One of the points/goals of the current policy validation was that **you** would bring your own engine, so if we start supplying *our engine* then that is substantially different already. Which also means we can't really do anything to preprocess the data (because *your engine* already expects a certain format, most likely a CFN template), and we can't ship a default ruleset into your engine.

We *could* do "our engine is just another validation plugin, one that happens to be enabled by default", but that runs into implementation location concerns I would say (part of the toolkit or part of the library?)                                         

Also I'm not sure if we are "just another plugin" we would want you to be able to disable it, because we probably have L1 validations in our engine that are going to replace handwritten L2 validations, and we would want those to always take effect.

--------------

Having said that, I do agree that it's worth doing a slightly deeper dive into the current API/system and seeing how they synergize: are their APIs that carry over, can apply to both, would not apply to both, etc.

>    for teams that need integration with specific external tools.

Reviewer 2: *If* we put the engine into the toolkit, then how do the \[default] rules make it to the engine? They should probably be version-locked to the library, or separately versioned by the user.

How big are they? Can we put them into every cloud assembly without blowing up the size there?

>    for teams that need integration with specific external tools.

Reviewer 2: (To a first approximation I guess the rules will be ~15-20MB, judging by the size of a dump of the Uluru schema)

Organizations can extend the default rule set with custom rules
written in a policy language like Rego. The default rule set will be a superset
over CloudFormation Guard rules so there is no need to add those rules again.

For example, here is a rule that checks Lambda function architectures:

```rego
package cfn

deny[msg] {
    resource := input.Resources[name]
    resource.Type == "AWS::Lambda::Function"
    arch := resource.Properties.Architectures[_]
    not arch_valid(arch)
    msg := sprintf(
      "InvalidArchitectureValue: Allowed values: x86_64, arm64. Received: \"%s\" (at Resources/%s)",
      [arch, name]
    )
}

arch_valid("x86_64")
arch_valid("arm64")
```

Custom rules are loaded from a configurable directory specified in `cdk.json`
or via the `--custom-rules` CLI option.
The engine automatically collects `.rego` files from the specified path.

```json
{
 "validate": {
   "customRules": [
     "node_modules/@your-org/cfn-rules/rules",
     "./my-local-rules"
   ]
 }
}
```

```bash
cdk synth --custom-rules ./my-local-rules
cdk validate --custom-rules ./my-local-rules
```

Because Rego files are plain text with no compilation step,

> they can be distributed through any package manager (npm, PyPI, Maven, NuGet).

Reviewer: To me the issue is that we are putting the responsibility of knowing about the rules dir on the user (not even the platform team). PolicyValidation already has a first class distribution support, maybe lean into that? 

I am not against an option to provide a custom rules dir. But as a standard mechanism is falls short of establish conveniences because it moves the responsibility to setup and connect rules _outside_ of the app. Using a `RULES_DIR` export as a crutch works, but why not have packages export a strongly typed interface like `IRules[]`?

our needs regarding output reporting.

Available plugins will get evaluated during the `cloudExecutable.synthesize()` method, which is the
earliest common ancestor for all CLI methods that synthesize. In the CDK Toolkit, the earliest common ancestor
is `synthAndMeasure`; the Toolkit and CLI actually use different sources for synthesis for legacy reasons.
That means that the plugin will have to be added to both locations to support both synthesis methods.

```ts
// Run plugins against synthesized templates
const allStacks = ret.assembly.stacks;
if (allStacks.length > 0) {
  const plugins = [new OfflineValidationPlugin(), ...(policyPlugins ?? [])];
  await runPolicyValidation(allStacks, plugins, ioHelper);
}
```

Offline Validation will run by default in addition to any other plugins the user provides.

#### Suppression Mechanism

There is a suppression mechanism available for Annotation warnings today:
`Annotations.of(construct).acknowledgeWarning()`.
This will be deprecated in favor of a unified `Validations.of()` API that covers
suppression for all types of CDK errors and warnings.

> The main `Validations` method will be `acknowledge`,

Author: The problem is, we are the ones constructing the `OfflineValidationPlugin` because its not meant to be turned off. That's why the API proposed focuses on exposing custom rules and suppressions as a separate API that we pipe into the plugin. To do what you're proposing, we'd need a way of differentiating when a user supplies a "custom" `OfflineValidationPlugin` the override the default and how do we verify that this "custom" plugin does what its supposed to? The plugin owns the `validate` command which does all the heavy lifting, so we'd need to make sure that method isn't tampered with. All that is to say, allowing for custom plugins this way is a can of worms.

Agree that the validation API should be generic enough to support other validation plugins, but I don't see a use case for that yet. At any rate, i'll leave `pluginName?` as an option on `acknowledge`

> The main `Validations` method will be `acknowledge`,

Reviewer 3: That's why I'm suggesting a static factory method. This would be the only way to instantiate this plugin. And once it's called, we can mutate some private state to indicate to the framework that we are in custom mode rather than default mode. We are still in control because all the user can do is provide some pre-defined configuration parameters, but the implementation is our own. And it will be always on: either in custom or default mode.

> The main `Validations` method will be `acknowledge`,

Author: I see and its a good idea that I hadn't considered. However --

I think with this we are conflicting different layers of abstractions here. if the config layer (i.e. custom rules + suppressions) lives on the `OfflineValidationPlugin`, then they cannot be used to encompass `Annotation` suppressions and the customer must know what kind of validation issue they are receiving when it shows up. It feels much cleaner to have a unified API to handle both these types of suppressions.

> The main `Validations` method will be `acknowledge`,

Reviewer: I think there are two different types of suppressions, which are similar but can _feel_ different to users:
- Global: "I don't like this rule, just turn it off"
- Local: "Suppress this specific error instance, I'm okay with it"

Of course a global suppression can just be modelled as an acknowledgment add to the app. The difference to me is that global ones are more likely to be decided ahead of time, i.e. company policies or personal preferences. While local suppression are almost always based wanted rules, that just need to be circumvented in certain limited instances.

Scope based suppressions carry the risk of accidentally suppressing something I did not mean to.
Consider this:

```ts
const bucket1 = new s3.Bucket(stack, "Bucket1", ./* ... */);
Validations.of(bucket1).acknowledge("must-be-encrypted");

// Error: Bucket1 must be encrypted
// works as intended

// However...
new new s3.Bucket(bucket1, "Bucket2", ./* ... */);
// Error: Bucket2 must be encrypted
// was this really intended?
```

(I don't have a good answer for this. Needs more iteration I think.)

> The main `Validations` method will be `acknowledge`,

Reviewer 2: That's a problem with all scope-based solutions, but I think on the whole it's Fine. Users are in control and the scope mechanism is used so pervasively that they will be aware of it.

  not if you bypass change set creation with `--method=direct`. 

##### Offline Validation

Offline validation runs automatically as part of `cdk synth` with no additional configuration required.
It combines all post-synthesis checks into one term that covers Annotation errors and warnings as well as
[Policy Validation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/policy-validation-synthesis.html)
plugins. In fact, the new rule set shipped as part of Offline Validation is implemented
as a default Policy Validation plugin. This default rule set covers common misconfigurations including
invalid property values, deprecated runtimes, overly permissive IAM policies, missing encryption, and
cross-resource dependency issues. These additional validations add under Y seconds to synthesis time.

##### `cdk validate`

You can also run all validation layers together using the new `cdk validate` command:

```bash
cdk validate [STACKS..] [--include <method>]
```

By default, this synthesizes your template and runs all validation methods.
You can optionally restrict to specific methods using `--include`:

```bash
cdk validate MyAppStack

> cdk validate MyAppStack --include offline --include online

Author: I've realized that `cdk validate MyAppStack --include offline` is morally equivalent to `cdk synth` (unless we decide that turning on offline validation is a breaking change). 

This makes me devalue `cdk validate` as a standalone command in the happy-path case where `synth` turns offline validation on by default. The value of this command comes from the `--online` portion where CFN Early Validation continues to integrate more "online" rules that we can catch before `cdk deploy`

Reviewer: Good catch! Maybe `--online` would be the default then. And a flag to turn it off. Although the online mode might also be equivalent to running `cdk diff --method change-set`...

Reviewer: Explore more what this command does, who it serves (agents? humans?) in what situations and what requirements these users and situations have.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps early validation is just an option to `cdk synth` then.

```
cdk synth --validate-against-cfn
```

And no point in having it on `cdk deploy` either.

Author: it feels technically infeasible to separate CFN early validation from `cdk deploy`. We get it for free when creating a changeset which to my knowledge `cdk deploy` will always have to do. We can add it as an option to synth but I kind of like the separation of `post-synth` and `pre-deploy`

Author: sounds like we can either:

1) have a dedicated `cdk validate` command
2) add `--validate-against-cfn` to `cdk synth`

IMO, i want to go about the additional flag route, because its the path of least resistance. but I can't deny that maybe AI agents might appreciate the standalone command and naturally see `cdk validate` as a good command to run after making a change to ensure everything is running properly

# CDK Comprehensive Validation RFC

* **Original Author(s):**: @kaizencc
* **Tracking Issue**: #897
* **API Bar Raiser**: @rix0rr

CDK Comprehensive Validation shifts left failures that occur during AWS CloudFormation
deployment time to local development.

## Working Backwards

### Blog Post

#### Catch CloudFormation Failures Before They Happen with CDK Comprehensive Validation

April 1, 2026 · AWS CDK Team

> Today, we are announcing CDK Comprehensive Validation,

Reviewer: For the RFC this is fine. Please check with @praneetap and the team to agree on final naming of this.

a new feature that shifts CloudFormation deployment failures left
by catching misconfigurations during local development —
before your template ever reaches AWS CloudFormation.
Whether you are deploying infrastructure yourself
or relying on an AI agent to build and deploy on your behalf,
slow feedback from deployment failures disrupts your development lifecycle.
CDK Comprehensive Validation gives you confidence that your deployment will succeed,
up to X% faster than waiting for a full `cdk deploy` to fail.

A new `cdk validate` command also unifies all validation output —

> offline rule checks, construct library errors, and CloudFormation change set validation —

Reviewer: You are using "offline rule checks" here as if it was a well-known term for the CDK. I don't think it is and it's not established before use.

Author: now i've defined "offline" and "online" which are TBD names that I'm fine with, but can be replaced with better ones later

into a single invocation.

##### Three Layers of Defense

> The AWS CDK already provides built-in validation at two points in the deployment lifecycle:

Reviewer: nit: technically "offline validation" right after synth isn't new. Policy-as-code operates at the same point.

Author: good point. so does annotations

construct library exceptions during synthesis

> and CloudFormation Early Validation during change set creation.

Reviewer 2: As a nit/improvement: from a user's point of view, I think it will be more interesting what the new rules are, where they are coming from, and what they mean. 

As Momo already said: we already have a phase like this right now, but it's pretty much "bring your own whatever". 

It's probably more interesting to users that WE will be curating a large portion of the rules here.

It's also more interesting for (L2) construct authors that these rules will encompass a lot of (L1) validations that previously had to be handcoded.

Author: updated this section to highlight this

> CDK Comprehensive Validation adds a third layer — offline validation —

Reviewer: note: similar, we should work and agree on the naming here before release. Yes bikeshedding, but these things matter in how they will be perceived.

that runs immediately after synthesis,
filling the gap between app-level checks and deployment-time checks.

```mermaid
block-beta
    columns 16

    block:synth["cdk synth"]:6
        columns 1
        space
    end
    block:deploy["cdk deploy"]:10
        columns 1
        space
    end

    A1["Build CDK App"]:4
    space:2
    A2["Build/Publish\nAssets"]:2
    A3["Create CFN\change set"]:4
    A4["Deploy CFN\change set"]:4

    space
    V1["CDK Construct\nLibrary Validation"]:2
    space
    V2["Offline\nValidation\n(NEW)"]:2
    space:3
    V4["CFN Early\nValidation"]:2
    space:2

>     V5["CFN Deploy-Time\nErrors"]:2

Reviewer: Missing policy as code and cdk nag. I don't mind the specific tools missing, but they operate in the same spot that offline validation claims as new.

Author: I've added Annotations because they can exist by default and live in the same spot as offline validation.

The purpose of this diagram is to show what exists by default and I've now made that clear. I know that may not be what you want to see, but I think I explain how offline validation works with the optional tools later in the blog post (in custom rules section)

* **Offline Validation (NEW)** — Immediately after synthesis, the new built-in validation engine evaluates
  your CloudFormation template against hundreds of rules. Unlike external tools, this engine resolves
  CloudFormation intrinsic functions natively, so it can catch issues that currently available CloudFormation
  analysis tools miss.
* **CFN Early Validation (existing)** — During `cdk deploy`, CloudFormation validates your change set
  before execution, catching issues like resources that already exist. Note that you get this by default, but
  not if you bypass change set creation with `--method=direct`.

##### Offline Validation

Offline validation runs automatically as part of `cdk synth` with no additional configuration required.
It combines all post-synthesis checks into one term that covers Annotation errors and warnings as well as
[Policy Validation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/policy-validation-synthesis.html)
plugins. In fact, the new rule set shipped as part of Offline Validation is implemented
as a default Policy Validation plugin. This default rule set covers common misconfigurations including

> invalid property values, deprecated runtimes, overly permissive IAM policies, missing encryption, and

Reviewer: > overly permissive IAM policies, missing encryption

Really? This seems to be more best practices territory than preventing failing deployments. I think I am realising now that this RFC never explicitly states would kind of rules local validation will cover. Or rather this is the first time. Until now the RFC is mostly concerned about _when_ and _how_ to run these rules.

Reviewer 2: Indeed.

Overly permissive IAM policies are more CDK-nag's territory.

Speaking of which, is there a way in which we can loop CDK nag into our validation mechanism? And by that I mean: come up with an API to configure CDK-nag/apply suppressions/etc? Obviously this API could be forward-looking and additive, but something that "tools like CDK-nag" could hook into going forward?

And I would leave the option open where cdk-nag's rules come from: could be our new rules engine language, could be implemented in straight-up TS.

Reviewer: That's a good call-out. Our change should offer a nice forward solution for cdk-nag that neatly fits in with the rest. It's a good example use case to account and test for and build against.

> cross-resource dependency issues. These additional validations add under Y seconds to synthesis time.

Reviewer: Nice! If this is the direction we are going it could be more upfront and center.

> cross-resource dependency issues. These additional validations add under Y seconds to synthesis time.

Reviewer: nit: this feels a bit pointless to me without a number. I think that execution time is more an implementation behavior you can mention in the design or "why we shouldn't do this" section.
```suggestion
cross-resource dependency issues.
```

##### `cdk validate`

You can also run all validation layers together using the new `cdk validate` command:

```bash
cdk validate [STACKS..] [--include <method>]
```

By default, this synthesizes your template and runs all validation methods.
You can optionally restrict to specific methods using `--include`:

```bash
cdk validate MyAppStack
cdk validate MyAppStack --include offline --include online
```

The unified output deliniates error provenance and whether the issue is suppressable. The following

> example is of a user with a CDK Nag Policy Validation plugin enabled:

Reviewer: Pretty cool!

```bash
> cdk validate MyAppStack

> Validation Report

Reviewer: This is incredible value!

-----------------

(Blocking)

> AwsSolutions-S1 (1 occurrences)

Reviewer 2: Not entirely happy with the presentation here yet. I have a feeling it could be snappier (easier to scan). 

Good enough for now perhaps, all the information is there, but we should be making sure to do a design pass on this later. Who knows, perhaps even by a qualified professional 🙃. Or at least ~~steal~~ ~~borrow~~ get inspired by the output of other tools that do similar things.

Reviewer: Color will help massively already! (Which is hard in this RFC format)

Author: This output is based on the existing Policy Validation plugin output and then some additional changes I've added for it to make sense (i.e. combining all sources into Blocking / Non-blocking instead of by source). It will look better with color certainly, and can evolve over time. Maybe more important is the json schema we want to supply since that will be harder to change

Reviewer 2: Evolving over time is a wax nose. Chances are high we won't touch this anymore after we release it.

Not the highest priority but I'd like someone with design chops to have a gander at this.

    - Template Path: ./cdk.out/MyStack.template.json
    - Creation Stack:
        └──  MyStack (MyStack)
             └──  DataBucket (MyStack/DataBucket)
                  │ Construct: aws-cdk-lib/aws-s3.Bucket
                  │ Library Version: 2.180.0
                  │ Location: new MyStack (lib/my-stack.ts:12:5)
    - Resource ID: DataBucket2C40E2F8

  Description: Bucket policy allows public read access

Policy Validation Report Summary

╔═════════════════════════════════════╤═════════╤════════════════════╗
║ Source                              │ Status  │ Blocking / Suppr.  ║
╟─────────────────────────────────────┼─────────┼────────────────────╢
║ ValidationEngine (Default)          │ success │ 0 / 1              ║
╟─────────────────────────────────────┼─────────┼────────────────────╢
║ CdkNagValidator                     │ failure │ 1 / 0              ║
╟─────────────────────────────────────┼─────────┼────────────────────╢
║ Construct Annotations               │ failure │ 1 / 1              ║
╚═════════════════════════════════════╧═════════╧════════════════════╝

2 blocking, 2 suppressable

Validation failed. See the validation report above for details
```

> The command also generates the report in JSON format with the `--json` option.

Reviewer: 👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻👏🏻

      },
      "occurrences": [
        {
          "constructPath": "MyStack/DataBucket",
          "templatePath": "./cdk.out/MyStack.template.json",
          "resourceLogicalId": "DataBucket2C40E2F8",
          "constructStack": {
            "id": "MyStack",
            "path": "MyStack",
            "construct": "aws-cdk-lib.Stack",
            "libraryVersion": "2.180.0",
            "location": "Object.<anonymous> (bin/app.ts:8:1)",
            "child": {
              "id": "DataBucket",
              "path": "MyStack/DataBucket",
              "construct": "aws-cdk-lib/aws-s3.Bucket",
              "libraryVersion": "2.180.0",
              "location": "new MyStack (lib/my-stack.ts:12:5)"
            }
          }
        }
      ]
    }
  ]
}
```

This makes `cdk validate` an ideal success gate for agentic workflows —
an AI agent can run it after generating infrastructure code
and immediately know whether the template is valid
without waiting for a full deployment.

##### Custom Rules and Sharing Across Organizations

Organizations can extend the default rule set with custom rules

> written in a policy language like Rego or CloudFormation Guard.

Reviewer: if this is tbd, please mark as such.

For example, here is a rule that checks Lambda function architectures:

```rego
package cfn

deny[msg] {
    resource := input.Resources[name]
    resource.Type == "AWS::Lambda::Function"
    arch := resource.Properties.Architectures[_]
    not arch_valid(arch)
    msg := sprintf(
      "InvalidArchitectureValue: Allowed values: x86_64, arm64. Received: \"%s\" (at Resources/%s)",
      [arch, name]
    )
}

arch_valid("x86_64")
arch_valid("arm64")
```

Custom rules can be configured in the library and in the CLI. In the library, you can reference
specific packages directly in code:

```ts
import { rulesDir } from '@your-org/cfn-rules';

> Validations.of(myApp).addRules({ sources: [rulesDir] });

Reviewer: Is this intentionally at scope level? So I can add rules that will only apply to part of my app?
If so, should be called out. If app/stack level only also needs to be called out and the code example implies otherwise.

Author: the answer to why is "because i can" but i am unconvinced of its value and will update to scope to app/stack.

> ```

Reviewer: If we are moving towards policy validations as base, why is this a different way of registering rules? Would custom rules not just be a policy validations plugin with an option? Or extending a package we provide?

Reviewer 2: I would also think you would import a construct or class from your library and add that, and abstract away the actual source (directory on disk or whatever) away.

Rego files are plain text — no compilation or runtime is involved.

##### Suppressing Warnings and Errors

Offline validation findings can be suppressed directly in your CDK code
using the `Validations.of()` API:

```ts
Validations.of(myConstruct).acknowledge('UseLatestVersion');
Validations.of(myConstruct).acknowledgeAllWarnings();
```

`Validations.of()` also handles annotation warning suppression,
becoming the unified way to acknowledge warnings in CDK.

##### CDK Toolkit

Offline Validation will be built natively into the CDK Toolkit. The
`synth` method (and other methods that synthesize) will automatically validate.
A new `validate` method will be available that mirrors the `cdk validate` CLI command.

##### Get Started

CDK Comprehensive Validation is available today.
Upgrade to the latest AWS CDK CLI and run `cdk synth` —
offline validation runs automatically.
Use `cdk validate` for a unified view of all validation results.

---

Ticking the box below indicates that the public API of this RFC has been
signed-off by the API bar raiser (the `status/api-approved` label was applied to the
RFC pull request):

```
[ ] Signed-off by API Bar Raiser @xxxxx
```

## Public FAQ

> ### What are we launching today?

Reviewer: doc feedback: this seems to be mostly the same as the blog post. I'd expect a more clinical description if all features; less a marketing pitch. For example, this part should clearly mention that we are releasing a default rules library as part of this.

Reviewer 2: I think the default rules library should be part of the pitch as well, and should feature more heavily in the blog post. A lot of the value is in the default rules, for both users and L2 construct authors.

> Today, we are announcing CDK Comprehensive Validation,

Reviewer: FYI, there's a mix in this RFC of calling this "Offline Validation" and "CDK Comprehensive Validation" and the distinction is lost on me.

Whether you are deploying infrastructure yourself
or relying on an AI agent to build and deploy on your behalf,
slow feedback from CloudFormation failures disrupts your deployment lifecycle.

The AWS CDK CLI already surfaces CloudFormation Early Validation results during `cdk deploy`,
catching errors during change set creation before your change set is executed.
With this launch, we are adding a new offline validation step
that runs immediately after synthesis during `cdk synth`,
supplementing the online validation that Early Validation provides.
Together with the existing app-level validation
that runs when your CDK constructs are built,
this gives both human developers and AI agents
three layers of defense against deployment failures.

A new `cdk validate` command unifies all validation output —
offline rule checks, construct library errors, and CloudFormation change set validation —
into a single command.

### Why should I use this feature?

You automatically get the benefits of Offline Validation during `cdk synth`,
making you more confident that your ensuing cdk deploy will succeed.
You can integrate the cdk validate command into your AI workflows

> as a success gate for rapid agentic cycles.

Reviewer: doc feedback: This doesn't read like a "why", more like a "what".

### What is the validation posture of CDK moving forward?

CDK's validation mechanisms include the following:

* construct library exceptions — handwritten errors that occur during synthesis

> * [NEW] Offline Validation — validation of the synthesized CloudFormation Template immediately after synthesis. This covers some existing validation mechanisms:

Reviewer: Nice!

  * Annotation Warnings & Errors - handwritten warnings/errors that are evaluated immediately after synthesis
  * Optional [policy validation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/policy-validation-synthesis.html) plugins -
  allowing CDK Nag, CFN Guard rules, etc.

>   * Default policy validation plugin covering common CFN deployment failures.

Reviewer 2: If it's about preventing deployment failures then it's not about policy.

*Policies* are *choices*. Choosing between a successful and a failing deployment isn't much of a choice, is it?

Author: yeah. i was using policy validation as the name of the mechanism although I suppose thats an implementation detail now and everything will be wrapped nicely inside a `Validations` class

* CFN Early Validation — CFN change sets are validated during CFN change set creation at CDK deploy time
* CFN Deploy-Time Errors — Actual errors that occur during CFN deployment

> Offline Validatios is meant to bring much of these additional validation rule sets natively into the CDK CLI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Offline Validations is meant to bring much of these additional validation rule sets natively into the CDK CLI.
```

> Offline Validatios is meant to bring much of these additional validation rule sets natively into the CDK CLI.

Reviewer: > much of these additional validation rule sets

Which additional validation rule sets is this referring to?

> Customers can continue to use these mechanisms but many custom set ups will no longer be necessary.

Reviewer: > can continue to use _these_ mechanisms

Which ones? E.g. CFN errors will continue to be used no matter what.

> but many custom set ups will no longer be necessary.

Nice! Replacing custom setups is a clear customer benefit; 

---

Tip: Be careful when using `these/those/this`. It makes text harder to follow and refactor.

## Internal FAQ

### Why are we doing this?

Moving eventual errors earlier in the development cycle is always a good idea.
This speeds up deployment time for humans and AI agents alike.
cdk validate combines CDK's validations from different sources under one umbrella
and will become the one-stop shop for agentic workflows to validate their work,

> up to X% faster than a full cdk deploy.

Reviewer: This might be the single most important section in the doc. You can be more assertive here with your value proposition.

### Why should we not do this?

We should not do this if validation bloats the time of cdk synth,
as we have a parallel goal of lowering the average cdk synth time.
We also need to be careful that the errors we surface are not false positives,
where the CloudFormation deployment actually succeeds but we return an error —

> this can be somewhat mitigated by providing an ergonomic suppression mechanism.

Reviewer: Feels short for a risk assessment. I can see 2 primary risks in here. You should also offer mitigations for the risks.

### What is the technical solution (design) of this feature?

The technical components of Offline Validation include:

- Offline Validation Engine
- Integration point in the synthesis command of CDK CLI
- Suppression mechanism
- Custom rule sets
- `cdk validate` command

#### Offline Validation Engine

The engine runs against the synthesized CloudFormation template json/yaml.
The engine will handle intrinsics natively. The engine requirements include:

* default rule set includes CFN Guard rules and CFN schema validation
* support for custom rule sets written in a policy language like Rego

> * executes during `cdk synth` automatically, adding under Y milliseconds of additional time to cdk synth

Reviewer: nit: the engine won't execute itself ;) 

```suggestion
* can be executed during `cdk synth` automatically, while not adding over Y milliseconds of overhead
```

* finds both errors and warnings, where warnings can be suppressed.

The actual implementation of the engine is out of scope of this RFC however.

The default rule set is likely to be around ~50MB when considering the size of the CFN schema
and other sources. This is a high penalty to pay considering the v2.1117.0 CDK CLI version is
~24MB unpacked. We are effectively tripling the unpacked size with the default validation rules.

> Still, its better to ship this size penalty in the CLI over the framework, as any cold-start initialization

Reviewer 2: This still says "engine in CLI", below we are saying "engine in framework".

Author: whoops, updated

> of the Validation Engine can be amortized across long-running CDK Toolkit processes like `watch`.

Reviewer: Is this section still accurate after the latest revisions?

If so, I'd like to see more detailed reasoning behind the claims
- default rule set is likely to be around ~50MB
- as any cold-start initialization
of the Validation Engine can be amortized across long-running CDK Toolkit processes like `watch`

Author: not accurate. the claim of default rule set being ~50MB is a ballpark guess as is cold start init time. A command like `cdk watch` would only have to init once if we were smart about caching the validation engine

#### Engine Integration

We will reuse the existing [Policy Validation](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/main/packages/aws-cdk-lib/core/lib/validation/validation.ts)

> plugin interface (and remove `Beta1` from the interface), which looks like this:

Reviewer: Any changes we need to make to the API? Any open issues that we should resolve?

Author: good call out. i assume you want me to add this to the RFC. The main one is [this](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/issues/34767) and the tl;dr: is an ask to expose policy validation result programmatically. i believe we can achieve this by ensuring the `validate` command is built into the CDK Toolkit

Reviewer: I think a statement explaining why we are now happy to graduate from the beta/preview status would be good. And that would typically include an analysis of known open issues, usage, etc. I know this blows the RFC somewhat up, but is important. Details can be in the Appendix.

Author: there really aren't any valid issues I can find arguing against the policy validation system and I'm wary about making stabilizing a 3 year old API a big deal. I've added some language to support my reasoning but I see this decision as a common sense decision that does not need heavy debate.

}

export interface IPolicyValidationContext {
  readonly templatePaths: string[];
}

export interface PolicyValidationReport {
  readonly success: boolean;
  readonly violations: PolicyViolation[];
  readonly metadata?: Record<string, string>;
  readonly pluginVersion?: string;
}

export interface PolicyViolation {
  readonly ruleName: string;
  readonly description: string;
  readonly violatingResources: PolicyViolatingResource[];
  readonly fix?: string;
  readonly severity?: string;
  readonly ruleMetadata?: Record<string, string>;
}
```

The validation logic lives in the framework to allow for seamless integration of default validations and custom validations.
Annotation warnings & errors and Policy Validation plugins are already established in the framework. By reusing the Policy
Validation plugin system, Offline Validation is able to unify all validation mechanisms that happen post-synthesis and pre-deploy.

This comes with the challenge of dealing with Offline Validation's estimated ~50MB unbundled package size and ~600-1000ms startup
cost when initializing the engine. We are deciding that we are okay with the size of validation in the framework rather than the CLI,

> and that the engine startup will run parallel with synthesis to minimize its impact. The actual time to validate templates will be

Reviewer 2: Is this technically achievable though? Afaik everything here is sync and Node has only one thread...

Reviewer: FWIW Node has worker threads.

Reviewer 2: Ya but communicating with a worker thread is async.

negligible; about 1ms per resource.

By putting Offline Validation in the framework, both the CLI and the CDK Toolkit will be able to use it with no additional
implementation. Offline Validation will run by default in addition to any other plugins the user provides.

#### Suppression Mechanism

There is a suppression mechanism available for Annotation warnings today:
`Annotations.of(construct).acknowledgeWarning()`.
This will be deprecated in favor of a unified `Validations.of()` API that covers
suppression for all types of post-synthesis CDK errors and warnings.

The main `Validations` method will be `acknowledge`,
where the user supplies one or more rule IDs.
Under the hood, we will use the ID to differentiate `Annotation` rules from Offline

> Validation rules and abstract the rule provenance away from the user.

Reviewer: Maybe `pluginName` should become part of the `ruleId`: 

```
aws-cdk-lib:bucket-must-be-encrypted
// or (but I usually would avoid default because it may change)
default:bucket-must-be-encrypted

// custom
cdk-nag:bucket-should-use-modern-encryption
momos-rules:banana-must-be-yellow

// annotations get a special prefix
#app:annonation-rule-id
```

```ts
export class Validations {
  public static of(construct: IConstruct): Validations {
    return new Validations(construct);
  }

  private constructor(private readonly construct: IConstruct) {}

  public acknowledge(...ruleIds: string[]): void {
    for (const id of ruleIds) {

>       if (this.isAnnotationRule(id)) {

Reviewer 2: Please avoid any solution that requires global knowledge of all possible validations rules.

Author: ack. I plan to determine rule source via well-known IDs as momo suggests above https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk-rfcs/pull/899/changes#r3071812864

        Annotations.of(this.construct).acknowledgeWarning(id);
      } else if (this.isOfflineRule(id)) {
        this.supressOfflineValidation(id);
      } else {
        // warn that the id is invalid
      }
    }
  }

  private suppressOfflineValidation(id: string) {
    const existing = this.construct.node.metadata.find(
      m => m.type === Validations.SUPPRESSED_RULES_METADATA_KEY,
    );

    const suppressions: string[] = existing?.data ?? [];
    if (!suppressions.includes(ruleId)) {
      suppressions.push(ruleId);
    }

    this.construct.node.addMetadata(Validations.SUPPRESSED_RULES_METADATA_KEY, suppressions);
  }
}
```

The suppressed rules stored in the construct metadata will be available to filter violations
reported by the offline validation engine.

#### Custom Rule Mechanism

Custom rules are written in Rego and configured in code via `Validations.of(stack).addRules()`.
The user supplies directories or individual `.rego` files on disk.

> Rules must be scoped to specific constructs within a CDK App. That means we must translate

Reviewer: But why? Can they not apply to the whole app?

Author: misspoke

      const resolved = path.resolve(source);
      stage.node.addMetadata(Validations.CUSTOM_RULES_METADATA_KEY, resolved);
    }
  }
}
```

After synthesis, this gets translated and then sent to the engine:

```ts
function collectCustomRulesFromAssembly(assembly: CloudAssembly): string[] {
  const paths: string[] = [];
  for (const stack of assembly.stacksRecursively) {
    for (const [, entries] of Object.entries(stack.manifest.metadata ?? {})) {
      for (const entry of entries) {
        if (entry.type === Validations.CUSTOM_RULES_METADATA_KEY) {
          paths.push(entry.data as string);
        }
      }
    }
  }
  return [...new Set(paths)];
}
```

### Is this a breaking change?

Maybe. The purpose of blocking Offline Validation rules is that such a configuration _cannot_ successfully deploy.
And if we are unsure of that, we provide the error/warning as suppressable. Still, a previously successful CDK App
could now receive suppressable errors and may need code updates to run successfully. Because we are committed to
backwards compatibility, some rules we really want to be errors may have to be warnings. Alternatively, `cdk validate`

> can throw the right errors while we may need to take a softer approach in `cdk synth`.

Reviewer: I'd like this to be mored detailed and have more explicit reasoning for eacb case. It seems like in the past we have freely added hard failures for anything that cannot be deployed. Is this different? Why? How is it better?

### What alternative solutions did you consider?

1. Rely solely on CFN Early Validation: rejected because it requires a CFN change set
   and that happens too late in the deployment process.
2. Write more CDK construct library exceptions: rejected because it is a treadmill,
   and L1 level users do not get access to L2 level validations.

> 3. Validation logic in the library: The main reasons to do so center around the ~50MB size and ~600-1000ms startup

Reviewer: still accurate?

Author: yes

Reviewer: I'm confused. This is the "What alternative solutions did you consider?" section and it seemed to me that "Validation logic in the library" is the solution we are now actually going for, not an alternative. That would mean that "Validation logic in the Toolkit" is the alternative considered.

   cost of the validation engine. For now, we decided to go with the established protocol of offline validation
   happening in the framework, and are willing to eat the ~50MB size cost (and have ideas for parallelizing the
   startup cost).

> 4. Custom rules written in TS: Right now the proposal is to allow for rules to be written in rego/guard rules

Reviewer: still accurate?

Author: yes (do you disagree with the initial approach?)

Reviewer: I don't disagree, but the current proposal seems to very much allow rules written in TS via policy plugins. I guess this might be specifically about rego/guard rules for our new default engine plugin? In that case, all clear. Maybe sharpen up the comment a little to make it more clear. Right now, it sounds a little like there is no way to provide any kind of rules as TS, which is not reflective of your proposal.

   only. It is possible in the future to add support directly in code, with a CDK construct that synthesizes
   into policy langugae rules. But that is more complicated and we will start with the simple solution first.

### What are the drawbacks of this solution?

1. Synth time: Adding offline validation to cdk synth increases synthesis time.
   This conflicts with the parallel goal of reducing average synth time.

>    Needs careful benchmarking and opt-out.

Reviewer: what does this mean? how this help? What are the consequences.

2. False positives: If offline rules flag something that CloudFormation would actually accept,
   users get blocked unnecessarily.
   The suppression mechanism mitigates this

>    but adds cognitive overhead to determine if the error is real.

Reviewer: FWIW, I feel this is more a "Why should we not do this?" less so an issue with your design.

Author: its already there so im gonna delete this

3. Overlap with existing CDK Policy Validation: Customers with existing policy validation plugins will
   have questions as to what is now an overlap and what they need to keep in their set up.
   Clear documentation and messaging is needed to explain how the default rules interact and whether
   customers should keep existing plugins or migrate to adding custom rules to the default plugin.
4. Package size: The default rule set and WASM engine is estimated to add approximately 50MB unpacked size
   to the framework. Disk footprint is negligible for most environments. CI/CD pipelines that install the library
   fresh per run will see a modest increase in install time proportional to the download size increase.

> ### What is the high-level project plan?

Reviewer: Consider adding a "Are there any open issues that need to be addressed later?" section.

    space
    V2["Offline\nValidation\n(NEW)"]:2
    space:3
    V4["CFN Early\nValidation"]:2
    space:2
    V5["CFN Deploy-Time\nErrors"]:2

    style synth fill:#2c3e50,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style deploy fill:#2c3e50,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style V1 fill:#f0c040,stroke:#333,color:#000
    style V2 fill:#2ecc71,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style V4 fill:#f0c040,stroke:#333,color:#000
    style V5 fill:#d44,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A1 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A2 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A3 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A4 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
```

* **CDK construct library exceptions (existing)** — Handwritten checks that run when your CDK constructs
  are built during synthesis. These catch issues like negative duration values or missing required properties.
* **Offline Validation (NEW)** — Immediately after synthesis, the new built-in validation engine evaluates
  your CloudFormation template against hundreds of rules. Unlike external tools, this engine resolves
  CloudFormation intrinsic functions natively, so it can catch issues that currently available CloudFormation

>   analysis tools miss.

Reviewer 4: What specific types of issues can be caught by resolving CloudFormation intrinsic functions natively?

Also, since this has an "offline" prefix, it shouldn't perform any network communication with SDK, so does that mean it doesn't validate the information returned by the actual resource such as `!Ref` and `!GetAtt`?

Reviewer 2: > What specific types of issues can be caught by resolving CloudFormation intrinsic functions natively?

Well-spotted that the language here makes a claim that is not going to resemble reality :). 

> Also, since this has an "offline" prefix, it shouldn't perform any network communication with SDK, so does that mean it doesn't validate the information returned by the actual resource such as !Ref and !GetAtt?

It won't, but that's also not \[always] practical. In a CREATE operation none of the resources exist, so there are no resources to pre-evaluate `GetAtt`s against.

Author: "resolve" is the wrong term. i believe the game plan is to just mark intrinsics as dynamic so that they don't break the existing rule validations. will update this sentence to be accurate

    arch := resource.Properties.Architectures[_]
    not arch_valid(arch)
    msg := sprintf(
      "InvalidArchitectureValue: Allowed values: x86_64, arm64. Received: \"%s\" (at Resources/%s)",
      [arch, name]
    )
}

arch_valid("x86_64")
arch_valid("arm64")
```

Custom rules are loaded from a configurable directory specified in `cdk.json`
or via the `--custom-rules` CLI option.
The engine automatically collects `.rego` files from the specified path.

```json
{
 "validate": {
   "customRules": [
     "node_modules/@your-org/cfn-rules/rules",
     "./my-local-rules"
   ]
 }
}
```

```bash
cdk synth --custom-rules ./my-local-rules
cdk validate --custom-rules ./my-local-rules
```

Because Rego files are plain text with no compilation step,
they can be distributed through any package manager (npm, PyPI, Maven, NuGet).
This gives organizations semver for rule versioning, changelogs for communicating changes,
and the dependency management that CDK users already rely on.

To share custom rules across teams or an entire organization,
we recommend publishing them in your package manager of choice.
Rego files are plain text — no compilation or runtime is involved.

> They can be imported via your CDK App via a new `Validations.of()` API:

Reviewer 4: In the traditional CDK, helper classes within core modules followed a naming convention of Xxxs / IXxx, as shown below:

- Aspects / IAspect
- PropertyInjectors / IPropertyInjector
- Mixins / IMixin

However, the `Validations` mentioned here are not classes that handle `IValidation`, are they? (`IValidation` is an interface used with the `addValidation` method.)

In other words, this does not follow the existing naming convention. I thought it might be a bit confusing, but is this acceptable?

Reviewer: Nice catch!

Author: The CDK class I am emulating here is `Annotations`, which you are right does not have a corresponding `IAnnotation` class. The `IXxx` interface pattern is used extensively around CDK constructs because they provide a good value to pass around your CDK app (i.e. we have properties typed to `IBucket` instead of `Bucket`) and a good base to extend. I don't see that same need here which is why I wasn't planning on doing an `IAnnotation` class.

That being said, you're calling out a few other places where we do `IInterfaces` for non constructs. I'm sure we'll get to the right implementation style to make `Validations` ergonomic for users.

Reviewer 4: My concern is slightly different though.

Unlike `Annotations` (where no `IAnnotation` exists), `IValidation` already exists and is used with `Node.addValidation()` (See: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/v2/docs/constructs.IValidation.html). So users would naturally assume `Validations` is the helper class for the existing `IValidation`, following the `Aspects`/`IAspect` pattern. If `IValidation` didn't exist, I'd have no issue with the name.

```ts
import { rulesDir } from '@my-org/rules';

Validations.of(myStack).addRules(rulesDir);
```

##### Suppressing Warnings and Errors

Offline validation findings can be suppressed directly in your CDK code
using the `Validations.of()` API:

```ts
Validations.of(myConstruct).acknowledge('UseLatestVersion');
Validations.of(myConstruct).acknowledgeAllWarnings();
```

`Validations.of()` also handles annotation warning suppression,
becoming the unified way to acknowledge warnings in CDK.

##### CDK Toolkit

Offline Validation will be built natively into the CDK Toolkit. The
`synth` method (and other methods that synthesize) will automatically validate.

> A new `validate` method will be available that mirrors the `cdk validate` CLI command.

Reviewer 4: If this is included by default, is it possible that a CDK application that was previously successful could start failing after upgrading the CDK CLI version including this feature? Or does it mean that by default no rules are executed, or perhaps only warnings are issued?

Author: good call out. the goal is for blocking errors to be for template configurations that certainly could not pass CFN deploy, so its not a breaking change to early-error on those. for other types of errors, we'll warn instead.

ideally there are rules we'd want to throw [suppressible] errors for but we cannot do so in a backwards compatible way. i don't think we can do anything there in `cdk synth`, but maybe those can be turned on in `cdk validate`

Reviewer: > ideally there are rules we'd want to throw [suppressible] errors for but we cannot do so in a backwards compatible way.

Help me understand. Going from "error" to "suppressible error" seems backwards compatible to me. I might have missed your point here. 🤔

Author: at cloud assembly time, we don't know if the template is for a new stack or an existing one. take deprecated lambda runtimes for example. some deprecated runtimes you can not create new lambda functions but you can update existing functions. since we don't have knowledge of creation vs update, this can only be a warning, but _might_ end up as a CFN deploytime error if its part of stack creation.

Reviewer 2: That is a good call and honestly something an online validation step could catch.

### Blog Post

#### Catch CloudFormation Failures Before They Happen with CDK Comprehensive Validation

April 1, 2026 · AWS CDK Team

Today, we are announcing CDK Comprehensive Validation,
a new feature that shifts CloudFormation deployment failures left
by catching misconfigurations during local development —
before your template ever reaches AWS CloudFormation.
Whether you are deploying infrastructure yourself
or relying on an AI agent to build and deploy on your behalf,
slow feedback from deployment failures disrupts your development lifecycle.
CDK Comprehensive Validation gives you confidence that your deployment will succeed,
up to X% faster than waiting for a full `cdk deploy` to fail.

CDK Comprehensive Validation combines three validation concepts under one umbrella:

- Construct library errors: errors written into CDK code that cause exceptions _during_ synthesis
- "Offline" validation: local validation of CFN templates immediately _after_ synthesis
- "Online" validation: validation prior to CFN change set execution with access to your AWS account

A new `cdk validate` command unifies these validation types into one comprehensive output.

##### Three Layers of Defense

> The AWS CDK already provides built-in validation at two points in the deployment lifecycle:

Reviewer 2: We also have policy validation already

Author: but its not built-in, right? i am talkign about validation that customers get by default

        columns 1
        space
    end
    block:deploy["cdk deploy"]:10
        columns 1
        space
    end

    A1["Build CDK App"]:4
    space:2
    A2["Build/Publish\nAssets"]:2
    A3["Create CFN\change set"]:4
    A4["Deploy CFN\change set"]:4

    space
    V1["CDK Construct\nLibrary Validation"]:2
    space
    V2["Annotation Errors\nOffline Validations (NEW)"]:2
    space:3
    V4["Online\nValidation"]:2
    space:2
    V5["CFN Deploy-Time\nErrors"]:2

    style synth fill:#2c3e50,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style deploy fill:#2c3e50,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style V1 fill:#f0c040,stroke:#333,color:#000
    style V2 fill:#2ecc71,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style V4 fill:#f0c040,stroke:#333,color:#000
    style V5 fill:#d44,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A1 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A2 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A3 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
    style A4 fill:#555,stroke:#333,color:#fff
```

* **CDK construct library exceptions (existing)** — Handwritten checks that run when your CDK constructs
  are built during synthesis. These catch issues like negative duration values or missing required properties.

> * **Offline Validation (NEW)** — Immediately after synthesis, the new built-in validation engine evaluates

Reviewer 2: Again, existing policy validation is missing here.

Author: again, i am trying to describe what is available by default

  not if you bypass change set creation with `--method=direct`.

##### Offline Validation

Offline validation runs automatically as part of `cdk synth` with no additional configuration required.
It combines all post-synthesis checks into one term that covers Annotation errors and warnings as well as
[Policy Validation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/policy-validation-synthesis.html)
plugins. In fact, the new rule set shipped as part of Offline Validation is implemented
as a default Policy Validation plugin. This default rule set covers common misconfigurations including
invalid property values, deprecated runtimes, and other errors that would result in a CloudFormation failure
at deploy time.

##### Custom Rules and Sharing Across Organizations

A new `Validations` API becomes the one-stop shop for customizations that previously were ad-hoc with different
interfaces, implementations, and outputs.

First, `Validations` will directly replace `Annotations` as the place to add ad-hoc errors or warnings:

```ts
Validations.of(myConstruct).addWarning('annotation:WarningId', 'message');

> Validations.of(myConstruct).addError('message');

Reviewer 2: I think errors should probably also have codes. They may or may not be suppressible, but identifiers are usually convenient.

```

The existing `CfnGuardValidator` plugin works seamlessly with this new design:

```ts
import { CfnGuardValidator } from '@cdklabs/cdk-validator-cfnguard';

// previously new CfnGuardValidator() would be configured directly on the app
Validations.of(myApp).addPlugin(new CfnGuardValidator());
```

The previous entrypoint of plugins within the `App`, `policyValidationsBeta1` will be deprecated
but not removed, following the CDK's [experimental ("preview") API guidelines](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#adding-new-experimental-preview-apis).

> We will modify CDK Nag to be a plugin CDK team manages similar to `CfnGuardValidator`. Organizations can then plug CDK Nag

Reviewer 2: This is a blog post from the future. We have already done this.

And AWS blog posts are written in the "you" form.

| Field | Description |
|---|---|
| `LogicalResourceId` | CFN logical ID of the failing resource |
| `ResourceType` | CFN resource type (e.g. `AWS::Lambda::Function`) |
| `ValidationName` | Category identifier (e.g. `PROPERTY_VALIDATION`, `NAME_CONFLICT_VALIDATION`) |
| `ValidationStatusReason` | Human-readable error message |
| `ValidationPath` | JSON path to the offending property in the template |
| `ValidationFailureMode` | `FAIL` (blocks execution) or `WARN` (allows execution) |

##### Mapping to the Validation Report

| Report field | Source |
|---|---|
| `ruleName` | Derived from `ValidationName` + a normalized prefix of `ValidationStatusReason` (see below) |
| `severity` | `FAIL` → `Fatal`, `WARN` → `Warning` |
| `source` | `"CloudFormation"` |
| `description` | `ValidationStatusReason` |
| `occurrences[].resourceLogicalId` | `LogicalResourceId` |
| `occurrences[].templatePath` | Known by CDK (we sent the template) |
| `occurrences[].locations` | `ValidationPath` |
| `occurrences[].constructPath` | Resolved from `LogicalResourceId` via the construct tree |
| `occurrences[].constructStack` | Resolved from construct path via existing source tracing |

> ##### `ruleName` Derivation

Reviewer 5: The offline rule IDs are stable (author-controlled). The online ones hmmm — they're derived by normalizing `ValidationStatusReason` message text we don't control. There is no contract. If CFN rewords a message, the derived ruleName changes and existing acknowledge() calls silently break.

The normalization algorithm also isn't defined — regex? lookup table? This is a suppression contract and needs to be in this doc.

TODO: Ask CFN to add a stable error code to DescribeEvents — then use that directly

at deploy time.

##### Custom Rules and Sharing Across Organizations

A new `Validations` API becomes the one-stop shop for customizations that previously were ad-hoc with different
interfaces, implementations, and outputs.

First, `Validations` will directly replace `Annotations` as the place to add ad-hoc errors or warnings:

```ts
Validations.of(myConstruct).addWarning('annotation:WarningId', 'message');
Validations.of(myConstruct).addError('message');
```

Organizations can plug CDK Nag rule sets into `Validations` or
supply custom rule sets into the Offline Validation engine, written in a policy language like Rego or
CloudFormation Guard (TBD on exact language).

```ts
import { AwsSolutionsChecks } from 'cdk-nag';

// previously Aspects.of(app).add(new AwsSolutionsChecks())
Validations.of(myApp).addAspects(new AwsSolutionsChecks());
```

This turns `AwsSolutionsChecks` into a "plugin" and becomes baked into anywhere validation happens or is presented
(example output below).

The existing `CfnGuardValidator` plugin works seamlessly with this new design:

```ts
import { CfnGuardValidator } from '@cdklabs/cdk-validator-cfnguard';

> // previously new CfnGuardValidator() would be configured directly on the app

Reviewer: So what will happen to that API? (Which was in beta/preview)

Author: I suppose we are in our right to delete completely since it was in preview. I think we should deprecate the API for X days and then remove it entirely (X=60).

Author: jk. we are not allowed to delete beta props and they will live on as deprecated

Validations.of(myApp).addPlugin(new CfnGuardValidator());
```

Finally, specific rules can be custom-written in a policy language.
Here is a rule that checks Lambda function architectures:

```rego
package cfn

deny[msg] {
    resource := input.Resources[name]
    resource.Type == "AWS::Lambda::Function"
    arch := resource.Properties.Architectures[_]
    not arch_valid(arch)
    msg := sprintf(
      "InvalidArchitectureValue: Allowed values: x86_64, arm64. Received: \"%s\" (at Resources/%s)",
      [arch, name]
    )
}

arch_valid("x86_64")
arch_valid("arm64")
```

This can then be shared across organizations by exposing the `IRule[]` interface:

```ts
interface IRule {
  readonly source: string;

> }

Reviewer: I don't think this is enough. A rule is more than just a source location. At minimum we need to encode the rule language somewhere.

// @your-org/cfn-rules
export const customRules: IRule[] = [
  { source: path.join(__dirname, 'rules/security') },
  { source: path.join(__dirname, 'rules/naming') },
];

// consumed as
import { customRules } from '@your-org/cfn-rules';

> Validations.of(myApp).addRules(new customRules());

Reviewer: Do we really need a separate API for this? If we'd piggy back on the plugin API, we don't have to tie ourselves to a specific language:

```ts
import { RegoValidator } from 'aws-cdk-lib/validations';
import { customRules } from '@your-org/cfn-rules';

Validations.of(myApp).addPlugin(new RegoValidator(customRules /* type RegoRuleSet */));
```

or even 

```ts
// @your-org/cfn-rules
import { RegoValidator } from 'aws-cdk-lib/validations';
export class AcmeValidator extends RegoValidator { /* ... */ };

// consumed as
import { AcmeValidator } from '@your-org/cfn-rules';
Validations.of(myApp).addPlugin(new AcmeValidator());
```

Author: I like your idea of supporting plugin wrappers around specific policy languages and then we dont need `addRules`
